>> Kadi Kraman: That was it for
the main coding parts of this workshop.
There's a couple of important topics that
I wanted to cover in addition to this.
And the first one is,
let's talk about deep linking.
I mentioned earlier that thanks to
Expo Router's file system based routing,
we get deep linking out of the box.
But what do I actually
mean when you say that?
So, because we have these constraints
around how we define screens and
layouts in our app folder, we can easily
distinguish each screen with an href.
And because of that,
building deep linking out of the box
is not only possible, but
achievable, and, well,
I don't want to say trivial,
but Expo Router supports it.
So this means that Expo Router can and
does support deep linking out of the box.
So what is deep linking?
As we've seen with our quick action,
it means opening a specific page in
your app from outside of the app.
Add apps register to listen
to a specific scheme.
So a keyword, recall that at
the very beginning of the course,
we set up the scheme in our app.json.
So this is the scheme for our app, and
this is the scheme that
our app is listening to.
>> Kadi Kraman: This looks similar
to http and mailto and tel, and
this is because it's
the same kind of thing, so
it kind of files an intent for
the various apps to listen and hook into.
So in our app,
plantly:// will open the homepage, but
we can also specify which screen that
they be linked to based on the URL.
So, we can actually use the href, and
it is something that you get out
of the box because of Expo Router.
If you're using things like
React Navigation, you can configure it,
we have to do it manually.
So, there is a nice utility
that you can use to test deep
links on a simulator or an emulator.
The reason I set up these plant IDs to be
numbers is that we know that this first
one is 1 and this second one is 2.
So, I don't have to log out
the IDs to link to them.
So let's copy this.
>> Kadi Kraman: So mpx-ui-scheme,
I'm going to open Plantly, actually,
let me just open Plantly as an app.
So this should open just the homepage.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely,
and then if I do Plantly,
now I can link to any of the routes
that I've configured in my app.
So I can do plants/1.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
then it opens the particular plant.
So in my examples,
I've linked to plants, but
you can actually link it to any of
the screens that we've defined here.
So we've got our profile screen,
so I could,
>> Kadi Kraman: Also do /profile.
>> Kadi Kraman: It opens the profile
screen, and it should be the same for
Android, so if I background this,
>> Kadi Kraman: Let's
do Android, it opens the home screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
then let's open the first plant.
>> Kadi Kraman: Android.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yes.
>> Audience 1: If we try to go to,
I forget if it was the index,
does the logic, if the onboarding hasn't
been complete, will it redirect to
the onboarding, or will it get through?
>> Kadi Kraman: That is a great question.
I think, right now, let's try it.
So we're on iOS, and we're in onboarding.
>> Kadi Kraman: So let's go to plant.
So it does go to onboarding.
So why does it do that?
So the reason it's doing that
is that we are trying to
render plants/1, which is this screen.
So when you think about
how things are rendered,
the best way to think about
it is actually go backwards.
So this is the screen
that we are requesting.
So, this is actually the last
thing that gets rendered.
Before that, we get this layout file.
Before that,
we get the layout file of the parent.
And before that,
So it actually renders in this order.
So this layout file, this layout file,
this layout file, and then plant ID.
And then our redirect is being
done in this layout file, so
that's why we're getting redirected.
That was a great question, though.
>> Audience 1: All right,
that kind of leads me to another question.
So what if you deep link into to
a screen that's part of a flow,
and then there's a back, and
then there's a forward in that
screen cuz it's part of a flow.
And based on the logic you
went through with layouts,
it's probably a good design to say have
a layout in case they hit the back.
But they deep link into like
three out of five screens,
they deep link to the third screen,
but then they hit the back button.
>> Kadi Kraman: Right, okay, so this
is actually another great question, but
let me show you, actually brings me to
a behavior that we will need to fix.
>> Kadi Kraman: Which is if I
completely close the app, and
then I'm gonna link to a plant screen,
so on here, right.
So on home screen,
I've linked to a plant screen in home, so
recall, we usually go,
we tap on a plant and
then we navigate to the plant screen,
but there's no back button here.
And the reason is that this
is rendered in a stack, and
this is the first item in
a stack that we're rendering.
And the way to get around it is that
we can use the initial route name.
So, I think people find
the initial route name misleading.
Because they assume that, I can just set
this screen to be the initial route name,
and then that gets rendered instead.
But that's not what happens, we get
the index screen gets rendered by default.
So, the initial rendering,
this is the perfect use case for it.
Let's go to the layout
file in app tabs home, so
it's a layout file that has the plants and
it has the index file,
yes, this is a correct one,
so here we'll do an export,
>> Kadi Kraman: const unstable_settings.
So the reason it's called unstable
settings is that it doesn't work with
async routes at the moment,
which is in beta.
But we are not using async route so
it is totally fine to use,
and we can do initialRouteName index.
I misspelt this, initial.
[COUGH] So this is now saying that
in this stack, regardless of,
so you should be starting with index,
hopefully.
But if you are not rendering index, make
sure that index is rendered underneath.
Now, if I close this, and I open it again.
>> Kadi Kraman: We actually see
I do get this back button, and
I can go back to the index page.
>> Audience 2: Is there a way to know
that a user has deep linked into a page,
like for analytic purposes, or
if you wanted to track that this
page view came from a deep link?
>> Kadi Kraman: Yes, I'm not sure I
know this off the top of my head,
but I will try.
I think it will probably be in linking.
So linking.getInitial URL,
let's try that.
So console.log(linking.getInitialURL).
>> Kadi Kraman: So where is, okay,
so this is where we are building.
And open this.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, well,
this is not a very useful function,
it's not asynchronous.
[LAUGH] I was expecting this to be,
it's a promise.
Okay, I was trying to be lazy,
but the world isn't having it.
Okay, useEffect.
>> Kadi Kraman: getInitial,
>> Kadi Kraman: And what do you want?
>> Kadi Kraman: linking.getInitialURL,
so what do we got,
we got sendIntent, openURL,
yeah I think that might be it.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, right, okay, so
now that we've actually awaited it,
we do get it.
So linking.getInitialURL
will tell you what
the user deep linked into the app with.
So that's what you can use.
>> Audience 2: If they didn't link,
I'm assuming that the routing
history won't have anything.
And it'll be an empty array or
it'll be for the go back,
it'll nothing to go back to.
At that point, would you be able to use
that hook to conditionally render like
a different button in the top.
If you didn't want to set what you did for
the home there?
>> Kadi Kraman: I see what you mean.
Yeah, yeah, you could.
Yeah, so
you could use the same useEffect here.
So we have our setOptions, so you can
programmatically set the screen options,
which include all of the top bar stuff.